# Spotify Suggestor
## Project Description
The goal of this project is to create a web app that helps Spotify listeners find songs that are similar to the one they are currently listening to.

Since I have a lot of songs saved in many different playlists on my Spotify account, I usually just listen to the most recent playlist that I am working on. With an application like this, users can "re-find" music that is already in their library. I also like listening to automatically curated playlists such as "Release Radar," but I find that these are based on all of my listening habits and include some really random songs on occasion. With this application, users could also request a handful of new songs recommended by Spotify and completely tailored to the current track.

## Implementation Details
Spotify already assigns values to each track for features such as "danceability," "acousticness," and "energy," so we could use these features to suggest a new song to the user. There are a couple ways we could recommend songs to the user: drawing from the user's song library and using Spotify's recommendation algorithm. 

### Using songs in the user's library
By drawing from the pool of songs that a user has already put in their library, this suggestion app helps them find music they may not have listened to in a while.

Spotify allows users to save songs to their library in addition to adding them to playlists. Since there might be songs saved to the library that are not in a playlist (and vice versa), we can collect all the tracks that a user has saved or added to a playlist. With the tracks stored, users can find songs that they may not have listened to in a while that are similar to the current track.

*Note*: Because Spotify's API does not expose information about a song's play count or the last time it was played, we won't be able to sort recommendations based on play history unless we implement these timestamps ourselves.

### Spotify's recommendation algorithm
Using Spotify's recommendation algorithm will be helpful for users that don't have very many songs in their library. It could also help those that are more focused on branching out from their current library.

Spotify's recommendation API lets you control how recommendations are generated by providing artists, tracks, audio features, and popularity. By feeding information from the current track into the recommendation algorithm, the user can find new music of similar taste.

## Team
I am looking for 1-2 people to join the team.

## SQL
I am thinking of using MySQL or PostgreSQL, but I am open to suggestions. We will need to create tables that store authorization tokens, all tracks in a user's library and playlists, and suggested tracks.

## NoSQL
A document database seems appropriate because of how track objects are returned by Spotify's API.

## Business
Any suggestions made to the user will be free, but we could implement a premium service that lets users learn more about their listening habits based on the data that we collect.

This project will be implemented as a web app so that it can reach a variety of users on many platforms. Creating a simple and basic interface will also allow us to focus on the database design and implementation.

## Legal
Because Spotify apps designed for commercial use have to be approved, the prototype has to be free and for educational use only.

## Technical
Here are the top priorities:
1. Define the minimum viable product (MVP)
1. Choose client- and server-side programming languages
1. Decide on SQL database for the prototype
1. Implement the MVP
